And Peleus married Thetis, too, through his modesty.	καὶ τὴν Θέτιν γʼ ἔγημε διὰ τὸ σωφρονεῖν ὁ Πηλεύς.
And then she went off and left him; for he was not lustful, nor an agreeable bedfellow to spend the night with.	κᾆτʼ ἀπολιποῦσά γʼ αὐτὸν ᾤχετʼ· οὐ γὰρ ἦν ὑβριστὴς οὐδʼ ἡδὺς ἐν τοῖς στρώμασιν τὴν νύκτα παννυχίζειν·
Now a woman delights in being wantonly treated.	γυνὴ δὲ σιναμωρουμένη χαίρει·
But you are an old dotard.	σὺ δʼ εἶ Κρόνιππος.
For consider, O youth, all that attaches to modesty, and of how many pleasures you are about to be deprived--of women, of games at cottabus, of dainties, of drinking-bouts, of giggling.	σκέψαι γὰρ ὦ μειράκιον ἐν τῷ σωφρονεῖν ἅπαντα ἅνεστιν, ἡδονῶν θʼ ὅσων μέλλεις ἀποστερεῖσθαι, παίδων γυναικῶν κοττάβων ὄψων πότων κιχλισμῶν.
And yet, what is life worth to you if you be deprived of these enjoyments?	καίτοι τί σοι ζῆν ἄξιον, τούτων ἐὰν στερηθῇς; εἶεν.
Well, I will pass from thence to the necessities of our nature.	πάρειμʼ ἐντεῦθεν ἐς τὰς τῆς φύσεως ἀνάγκας.
You have gone astray, you have fallen in love, you have been guilty of some adultery, and then have been caught.	ἥμαρτες, ἠράσθης, ἐμοίχευσάς τι, κᾆτʼ ἐλήφθης· ἀπόλωλας·
You are undone, for you are unable to speak.	ἀδύνατος γὰρ εἶ λέγειν.
But if you associate with me, indulge your inclination, dance, laugh, and think nothing disgraceful.	ἐμοὶ δʼ ὁμιλῶν χρῶ τῇ φύσει, σκίρτα, γέλα, νόμιζε μηδὲν αἰσχρόν.
For if you should happen to be detected as an adulterer, you will make this reply to him, that you have done him no injury : and then refer him to Jupiter, how even he is overcome by love and women .	μοιχὸς γὰρ ἢν τύχῃς ἁλούς, τάδʼ ἀντερεῖς πρὸς αὐτόν, ὡς οὐδὲν ἠδίκηκας· εἶτʼ ἐς τὸν Δίʼ ἐπανενεγκεῖν, κἀκεῖνος ὡς ἥττων ἔρωτός ἐστι καὶ γυναικῶν·
And yet, how could you, who are a mortal, have greater power than a god?	καίτοι σὺ θνητὸς ὢν θεοῦ πῶς μεῖζον ἂν δύναιο;
But what if he should suffer the radish through obeying you, and be depillated with hot ashes? What argument will he be able to state, to prove that he is not a blackguard?	τί δʼ ἢν ῥαφανιδωθῇ πιθόμενός σοι τέφρᾳ τε τιλθῇ, ἕξει τινὰ γνώμην λέγειν τὸ μὴ εὐρύπρωκτος εἶναι;
And if he be a blackguard, what harm will he suffer?	ἢν δʼ εὐρύπρωκτος ᾖ, τί πείσεται κακόν;
