Show yourself to the spectators, although being audacious.	χώρει δευρί, δεῖξον σαυτὸν τοῖσι θεαταῖς, καίπερ θρασὺς ὤν.
Go whither you please; for I shall far rather do for you, if I speak before a crowd.	ἴθʼ ὅποι χρῄζεις. πολὺ γὰρ μᾶλλόν ʼς ἐν τοῖς πολλοῖσι λέγων ἀπολῶ.
You destroy me?	ἀπολεῖς σύ;
Who are you?	τίς ὤν;
A cause.	λόγος.
Ay, the worse.	ἥττων γʼ ὤν.
But I conquer you, who say that you are better than I.	ἀλλά σε νικῶ τὸν ἐμοῦ κρείττω φάσκοντʼ εἶναι.
By doing what clever trick?	τί σοφὸν ποιῶν;
By discovering new contrivances.	γνώμας καινὰς ἐξευρίσκων.
For these innovations flourish by the favour of these silly persons.	ταῦτα γὰρ ἀνθεῖ διὰ τουτουσὶ τοὺς ἀνοήτους.
No; but wise persons.	οὔκ, ἀλλὰ σοφούς.
I will destroy you miserably.	ἀπολῶ σε κακῶς.
Tell me, by doing what?	εἰπὲ τί ποιῶν;
By speaking what is just.	τὰ δίκαια λέγων.
But I will overturn them by contradicting them; for I deny that justice even exists at all.	ἀλλʼ ἀνατρέψω γʼ αὔτʼ ἀντιλέγων· οὐδὲ γὰρ εἶναι πάνυ φημὶ δίκην.
Do you deny that it exists?	οὐκ εἶναι φῄς;
For come, where is it?	φέρε γὰρ ποῦ ʼστιν;
With the gods.	παρὰ τοῖσι θεοῖς.
How, then, if justice exists, has Jupiter not perished, who bound his own father?	πῶς δῆτα δίκης οὔσης ὁ Ζεὺς οὐκ ἀπόλωλεν τὸν πατέρʼ αὑτοῦ δήσας;
Bah! This profanity now is spreading!	αἰβοῖ τουτὶ καὶ δὴ χωρεῖ τὸ κακόν·
Give me a basin.	δότε μοι λεκάνην.
You are a dotard and absurd.	τυφογέρων εἶ κἀνάρμοστος.
You are debauched and shameless.	καταπύγων εἶ κἀναίσχυντος.
You have spoken roses of me.	ῥόδα μʼ εἴρηκας.
And a dirty lickspittle.	καὶ βωμολόχος.
You crown me with lilies.	κρίνεσι στεφανοῖς.
And a parricide.	καὶ πατραλοίας.
You don't know that you are sprinkling me with gold.	χρυσῷ πάττων μʼ οὐ γιγνώσκεις.
Certainly not so formerly, but with lead.	οὐ δῆτα πρὸ τοῦ γʼ, ἀλλὰ μολύβδῳ.
But now this is an ornament to me.	νῦν δέ γε κόσμος τοῦτʼ ἐστὶν ἐμοί.
You are very impudent.	θρασὺς εἶ πολλοῦ.
And you are antiquated.	σὺ δέ γʼ ἀρχαῖος.
And through you, no one of our youths is willing to go to school; and you will be found out some time or other by the Athenians, what sort of doctrines you teach the simple-minded.	διὰ σὲ δὲ φοιτᾶν οὐδεὶς ἐθέλει τῶν μειρακίων· καὶ γνωσθήσει ποτʼ Ἀθηναίοις οἶα διδάσκεις τοὺς ἀνοήτους.
