Hollo!	ἰοὺ ἰού.
O neighbours, and kinsfolk, and fellow-tribesmen, defend me, by all means, who am being beaten!	ὦ γείτονες καὶ ξυγγενεῖς καὶ δημόται, ἀμυνάθετέ μοι τυπτομένῳ πάσῃ τέχνῃ.
Ah me, unhappy man, for my head and jaw! Wretch!	οἴμοι κακοδαίμων τῆς κεφαλῆς καὶ τῆς γνάθου.
Do you beat your father?	ὦ μιαρὲ τύπτεις τὸν πατέρα;
Yes, father.	φήμʼ ὦ πάτερ.
You see him owning that he beats me.	ὁρᾶθʼ ὁμολογοῦνθʼ ὅτι με τύπτει.
Certainly.	καὶ μάλα.
O wretch, and parricide, and house-breaker!	ὦ μιαρὲ καὶ πατραλοῖα καὶ τοιχωρύχε.
Say the same things of me again, and more.	αὖθίς με ταὐτὰ ταῦτα καὶ πλείω λέγε.
Do you know that I take pleasure in being much abused?	ἆρʼ οἶσθʼ ὅτι χαίρω πόλλʼ ἀκούων καὶ κακά;
You blackguard!	ὦ λακκόπρωκτε.
Sprinkle me with roses in abundance.	πάττε πολλοῖς τοῖς ῥόδοις.
Do you beat your father?	τὸν πατέρα τύπτεις;
And will prove too, by Jupiter! that I beat you with justice.	κἀποφανῶ γε νὴ Δία ὡς ἐν δίκῃ σʼ ἔτυπτον.
O thou most rascally! Why, how can it be just to beat a father?	ὦ μιαρώτατε, καὶ πῶς γένοιτʼ ἂν πατέρα τύπτειν ἐν δίκῃ;
I will demonstrate it, and will overcome you in argument.	ἔγωγʼ ἀποδείξω καί σε νικήσω λέγων.
Will you overcome me in this?	τουτὶ σὺ νικήσεις;
Yea, by much and easily.	πολύ γε καὶ ῥᾳδίως.
But choose which of the two Causes you wish to speak.	ἑλοῦ δʼ ὁπότερον τοῖν λόγοιν βούλει λέγειν.
Of what two Causes?	ποίοιν λόγοιν;
The better, or the worse?	τὸν κρείττονʼ ἢ τὸν ἥττονα.
Marry, I did get you taught to speak against justice, by Jupiter, my friend, if you are going to persuade me of this, that it is just and honourable for a father to be beaten by his sons!	ἐδιδαξάμην μέντοι σε νὴ Δίʼ ὦ μέλε τοῖσιν δικαίοις ἀντιλέγειν, εἰ ταῦτά γε μέλλεις ἀναπείσειν, ὡς δίκαιον καὶ καλὸν τὸν πατέρα τύπτεσθʼ ἐστὶν ὑπὸ τῶν υἱέων.
I think I shall certainly persuade you; so that, when you have heard, not even you yourself will say anything against it.	ἀλλʼ οἴομαι μέντοι σʼ ἀναπείσειν, ὥστε γε οὐδʼ αὐτὸς ἀκροασάμενος οὐδὲν ἀντερεῖς.
Well, now, I am willing to hear what you have to say.	καὶ μὴν ὅ τι καὶ λέξεις ἀκοῦσαι βούλομαι.
