Drive on your own course.	Φίλων ἀδικεῖς·
This is the bane that has destroyed me; for even in his sleep he dreams about horsemanship.	ἔλαυνε τὸν σαυτοῦ δρόμον. τοῦτʼ ἔστι τουτὶ τὸ κακὸν ὅ μʼ ἀπολώλεκεν·
How many courses will the war-chariots run?	ὀνειροπολεῖ γὰρ καὶ καθεύδων ἱππικήν.
Many courses do you drive me, your father.	πόσους δρόμους ἐλᾷ τὰ πολεμιστήρια;
But what debt came upon me after Pasias?	ἐμὲ μὲν σὺ πολλοὺς τὸν πατέρʼ ἐλαύνεις δρόμους.
Three minae to Amynias for a little chariot and pair of wheels.	ἀτὰρ τί χρέος ἔβα με μετὰ τὸν Πασίαν;
Lead the horse home, after having given him a good rolling.	τρεῖς μναῖ διφρίσκου καὶ τροχοῖν Ἀμυνίᾳ.
O foolish youth, you have rolled me out of my possessions; since I have been cast in suits, and others say that they will have surety given them for the interest.	ἄπαγε τὸν ἵππον ἐξαλίσας οἴκαδε. ἀλλʼ ὦ μέλʼ ἐξήλικας ἐμέ γʼ ἐκ τῶν ἐμῶν, ὅτε καὶ δίκας ὤφληκα χἄτεροι τόκου ἐνεχυράσεσθαί φασιν.
Pray, father, why are you peevish, and toss about the whole night?	ἐτεὸν ὦ πάτερ τί δυσκολαίνεις καὶ στρέφει τὴν νύχθʼ ὅλην;
A bailiff out of the bedclothes is biting me.	δάκνει μὲ δήμαρχός τις ἐκ τῶν στρωμάτων.
Suffer me, good sir, to sleep a little.	ἔασον ὦ δαιμόνιε καταδαρθεῖν τί με.
Then, do you sleep on; but know that all these debts will turn on your head.	σὺ δʼ οὖν κάθευδε· τὰ δὲ χρέα ταῦτʼ ἴσθʼ ὅτι ἐς τὴν κεφαλὴν ἅπαντα τὴν σὴν τρέψεται.
Alas!	φεῦ.
Would that the match-maker had perished miserably, who induced me to marry your mother.	εἴθʼ ὤφελʼ ἡ προμνήστριʼ ἀπολέσθαι κακῶς, ἥτις με γῆμʼ ἐπῆρε τὴν σὴν μητέρα·
For a country life used to be most agreeable to me, dirty, untrimmed, reclining at random, abounding in bees, and sheep, and oil-cake.	ἐμοὶ γὰρ ἦν ἄγροικος ἥδιστος βίος εὐρωτιῶν, ἀκόρητος, εἰκῇ κείμενος, βρύων μελίτταις καὶ προβάτοις καὶ στεμφύλοις.
Then I, a rustic, married a niece of Megacles, the son of Megacles, from the city, haughty, luxurious, and Coesyrafied.	ἔπειτʼ ἔγημα Μεγακλέους τοῦ Μεγακλέους ἀδελφιδῆν ἄγροικος ὢν ἐξ ἄστεως, σεμνὴν τρυφῶσαν ἐγκεκοισυρωμένην.
When I married her, I lay with her redolent of new wine, of the cheese-crate, and abundance of wool; but she, on the contrary, of ointment, saffron, wanton-kisses, extravagance, gluttony, and of Colias and Genetyllis.	ταύτην ὅτʼ ἐγάμουν, συγκατεκλινόμην ἐγὼ ὄζων τρυγὸς τρασιᾶς ἐρίων περιουσίας, ἡ δʼ αὖ μύρου κρόκου καταγλωττισμάτων, δαπάνης λαφυγμοῦ Κωλιάδος Γενετυλλίδος.
I will not indeed say that she was idle; but she wove.	οὐ μὴν ἐρῶ γʼ ὡς ἀργὸς ἦν, ἀλλʼ ἐσπάθα.
And I used to show her this cloak by way of a pretext and say Wife, you weave at a great rate.	ἐγὼ δʼ ἂν αὐτῇ θοἰμάτιον δεικνὺς τοδὶ πρόφασιν ἔφασκον, ὦ γύναι λίαν σπαθᾷς.
