Huzza! Huzza!	ἰὼ ἰὼ τέκνον, ἰὼ ἰοῦ ἰοῦ.
How I am delighted at the first sight of your complexion!	ὡς ἥδομαί σου πρῶτα τὴν χρόαν ἰδών.
Now, indeed, you are, in the first place, negative and disputatious to look at, and this fashion native to the place plainly appears, the what do you say?	νῦν μέν γʼ ἰδεῖν εἶ πρῶτον ἐξαρνητικὸς κἀντιλογικός, καὶ τοῦτο τοὐπιχώριον ἀτεχνῶς ἐπανθεῖ, τὸ τί λέγεις σύ;
and the seeming to be injured when, I well know, you are injuring and inflicting a wrong; and in your countenance there is the Attic look.	καὶ δοκεῖν ἀδικοῦντʼ ἀδικεῖσθαι καὶ κακουργοῦντʼ οἶδʼ ὅτι· ἐπὶ τοῦ προσώπου τʼ ἐστὶν Ἀττικὸν βλέπος.
Now, therefore, see that you save me, since you have also ruined me.	νῦν οὖν ὅπως σώσεις μʼ, ἐπεὶ κἀπώλεσας.
What, pray, do you fear?	φοβεῖ δὲ δὴ τί;
The Old and New.	τὴν ἕνην τε καὶ νέαν.
Why, is any day old and new?	ἕνη γάρ ἐστι καὶ νέα τις ἡμέρα;
Yes; on which they say that they will make their deposits against me.	εἰς ἥν γε θήσειν τὰ πρυτανεῖά φασί μοι. ἀπολοῦσʼ ἄρʼ αὔθʼ οἱ θέντες·
Then those that have made them will lose them; for it is not possible that two days can be one day.	οὐ γὰρ ἔσθʼ ὅπως μίʼ ἡμέρα γένοιτʼ ἂν ἡμέρα δύο. οὐκ ἂν γένοιτο;
Can not it?	πῶς γάρ;
Certainly not; unless the same woman can be both old and young at the same time.	εἰ μή πέρ γʼ ἅμα αὑτὴ γένοιτʼ ἂν γραῦς τε καὶ νέα γυνή.
And yet it is the law.	καὶ μὴν νενόμισταί γʼ.
For they do not, I think, rightly understand what the law means.	οὐ γάρ, οἶμαι, τὸν νόμον ἴσασιν ὀρθῶς ὅ τι νοεῖ.
And what does it mean?	νοεῖ δὲ τί;
The ancient Solon was by nature the commons' friend.	ὁ Σόλων ὁ παλαιὸς ἦν φιλόδημος τὴν φύσιν.
This surely is nothing whatever to the Old and New.	τουτὶ μὲν οὐδέν πω πρὸς ἕνην τε καὶ νέαν.
He therefore made the summons for two days, for the Old and New, that the deposits might be made on the first of the month.	ἐκεῖνος οὖν τὴν κλῆσιν ἐς δύʼ ἡμέρας ἔθηκεν, ἔς γε τὴν ἕνην τε καὶ νέαν, ἵνʼ αἱ θέσεις γίγνοιντο τῇ νουμηνίᾳ.
Why, pray, did he add the old day?	ἵνα δὴ τί τὴν ἕνην προσέθηχʼ;
In order, my good sir, that the defendants, being present a day before, might compromise the matter of their own accord; but if not, that they might be worried on the morning of the new moon.	ἵνʼ ὦ μέλε παρόντες οἱ φεύγοντες ἡμέρᾳ μιᾷ πρότερον ἀπαλλάττοινθʼ ἑκόντες, εἰ δὲ μή, ἕωθεν ὑπανιῷντο τῇ νουμηνία.
Why, then, do the magistrates not receive the deposits on the new moon, but on the Old and New?	πῶς οὐ δέχονται δῆτα τῇ νουμηνίᾳ ἁρχαὶ τὰ πρυτανεῖʼ, ἀλλʼ ἕνῃ τε καὶ νέᾳ;
They seem to me to do what the forestallers do: in order that they may appreciate the deposits as soon as possible, on this account they have the first pick by one day.	ὅπερ οἱ προτένθαι γὰρ δοκοῦσί μοι ποιεῖν· ὅπως τάχιστα τὰ πρυτανεῖʼ ὑφελοίατο, διὰ τοῦτο προὐτένθευσαν ἡμέρᾳ μιᾷ.
Bravo!	εὖ γʼ·
Ye wretches, why do you sit senseless, the gain of us wise men, being blocks, ciphers, mere sheep, jars heaped together, wherefore I must sing an encomium upon myself and this my son, on account of our good fortune.	ὦ κακοδαίμονες, τί κάθησθʼ ἀβέλτεροι, ἡμέτερα κέρδη τῶν σοφῶν ὄντες, λίθοι, ἀριθμός, πρόβατʼ ἄλλως, ἀμφορῆς νενησμένοι; ὥστʼ εἰς ἐμαυτὸν καὶ τὸν υἱὸν τουτονὶ ἐπʼ εὐτυχίαισιν ᾀστέον μοὐγκώμιον.
