Ah me!	ἰοὺ ἰού·
O King Jupiter, of what a terrible length the nights are!	ὦ Ζεῦ βασιλεῦ τὸ χρῆμα τῶν νυκτῶν ὅσον·
Will it never be day?	ἀπέραντον.
And yet long since I heard the cock.	οὐδέποθʼ ἡμέρα γενήσεται;
My domestics are snoring; but they would not have done so heretofore!	καὶ μὴν πάλαι γʼ ἀλεκτρυόνος ἤκουσʼ ἐγώ· οἱ δʼ οἰκέται ῥέγκουσιν·
May you perish then, O war!	ἀλλʼ οὐκ ἂν πρὸ τοῦ.
For many reasons; because I may not even punish my domestics.	ἀπόλοιο δῆτʼ ὦ πόλεμε πολλῶν οὕνεκα, ὅτʼ οὐδὲ κολάσʼ ἔξεστί μοι τοὺς οἰκέτας.
Neither does this excellent youth awake through the night; but takes his ease, wrapped up in five blankets.	ἀλλʼ οὐδʼ ὁ χρηστὸς οὑτοσὶ νεανίας ἐγείρεται τῆς νυκτός, ἀλλὰ πέρδεται ἐν πέντε σισύραις ἐγκεκορδυλημένος.
Well, if it is the fashion, let us snore wrapped up.	ἀλλʼ εἰ δοκεῖ ῥέγκωμεν ἐγκεκαλυμμένοι.
But I am not able, miserable man, to sleep, being tormented by my expenses, and my stud of horses, and my debts, through this son of mine.	ἀλλʼ οὐ δύναμαι δείλαιος εὕδειν δακνόμενος ὑπὸ τῆς δαπάνης καὶ τῆς φάτνης καὶ τῶν χρεῶν διὰ τουτονὶ τὸν υἱόν.
He with his long hair, is riding horses and driving curricles, and dreaming of horses; while I am driven to distraction, as I see the moon bringing on the twentieths; for the interest is running on.	ὁ δὲ κόμην ἔχων ἱππάζεταί τε καὶ ξυνωρικεύεται ὀνειροπολεῖ θʼ ἵππους· ἐγὼ δʼ ἀπόλλυμαι ὁρῶν ἄγουσαν τὴν σελήνην εἰκάδας·
Boy!	οἱ γὰρ τόκοι χωροῦσιν.
Light a lamp, and bring forth my tablets, that I may take them and read to how many I am indebted, and calculate the interest.	ἅπτε παῖ λύχνον, κἄκφερε τὸ γραμματεῖον, ἵνʼ ἀναγνῶ λαβὼν ὁπόσοις ὀφείλω καὶ λογίσωμαι τοὺς τόκους.
Come, let me see; what do I owe?	φέρʼ ἴδω τί ὀφείλω;
Twelve minae to Pasias.	δώδεκα μνᾶς Πασίᾳ.
Why twelve minae to Pasias?	τοῦ δώδεκα μνᾶς Πασίᾳ;
Why did I borrow them?	τί ἐχρησάμην;
When I bought the blood-horse.	ὅτʼ ἐπριάμην τὸν κοππατίαν.
Ah me, unhappy! Would that it had had its eye knocked out with a stone first!	οἴμοι τάλας, εἴθʼ ἐξεκόπην πρότερον τὸν ὀφθαλμὸν λίθῳ.
