How, when engaged in a lawsuit, you could overturn the suit, when you were about to be cast, because you had no witnesses.	ὅπως ἀποστρέψαιʼ ἂν ἀντιδικῶν δίκην μέλλων ὀφλήσειν μὴ παρόντων μαρτύρων.
Most readily and easily.	φαυλότατα καὶ ῥᾷστʼ.
Tell me, pray.	εἰπὲ δή.
Well now, I'll tell you.	καὶ δὴ λέγω.
If, while one suit was still pending, before mine was called on, I were to run away and hang myself.	εἰ πρόσθεν ἔτι μιᾶς ἐνεστώσης δίκης, πρὶν τὴν ἐμὴν καλεῖσθʼ, ἀπαγξαίμην τρέχων.
You talk nonsense.	οὐδὲν λέγεις.
By the gods, would I! For no one will bring action against me when I am dead.	νὴ τοὺς θεοὺς ἔγωγʼ, ἐπεὶ οὐδεὶς κατʼ ἐμοῦ τεθνεῶτος εἰσάξει δίκην.
You talk nonsense.	ὑθλεῖς·
Begone; I can't teach you any longer.	ἄπερρʼ, οὐκ ἂν διδάξαιμʼ ἄν σʼ ἔτι.
Why so?	ὁτιὴ τί;
Yea, by the gods, O Socrates!	ναὶ πρὸς τῶν θεῶν ὦ Σώκρατες.
You straightaway forget whatever you learn.	ἀλλʼ εὐθὺς ἐπιλήθει σύ γʼ ἅττʼ ἂν καὶ μάθῃς·
For what now was the first thing you were taught?	ἐπεὶ τί νυνὶ πρῶτον ἐδιδάχθης;
Tell me.	λέγε.
Come, let me see: nay, what was the first?	φέρʼ ἴδω τί μέντοι πρῶτον ἦν;
What was the fist?	τί πρῶτον ἦν;
Nay, what was the thing in which we knead our flour?	τίς ἦν ἐν ᾗ ʼματτόμεθα μέντοι τἄλφιτα;
Ah me! What was it?	οἴμοι τίς ἦν;
Will you not pack off to the devil, you most forgetful and most stupid old man?	οὐκ ἐς κόρακας ἀποφθερεῖ, ἐπιλησμότατον καὶ σκαιότατον γερόντιον;
Ah me, what then, pray will become of me, wretched man?	οἴμοι τί οὖν δῆθʼ ὁ κακοδαίμων πείσομαι;
For I shall be utterly undone, if I do not learn to ply the tongue.	ἀπὸ γὰρ ὀλοῦμαι μὴ μαθὼν γλωττοστροφεῖν.
Come, O ye Clouds, give me some good advice.	ἀλλʼ ὦ Νεφέλαι χρηστόν τι συμβουλεύσατε.
We, old man, advise you, if you have a son grown up, to send him to learn in your stead.	ἡμεῖς μὲν ὦ πρεσβῦτα συμβουλεύομεν, εἴ σοί τις υἱός ἐστιν ἐκτεθραμμένος, πέμπειν ἐκεῖνον ἀντὶ σαυτοῦ μανθάνειν.
Well, I have a fine, handsome son, but he is not willing to learn.	ἀλλʼ ἔστʼ ἔμοιγʼ υἱὸς καλός τε κἀγαθός· ἀλλʼ οὐκ ἐθέλει γὰρ μανθάνειν.
What must I do?	τί ἐγὼ πάθω;
But do you permit him?	σὺ δʼ ἐπιτρέπεις;
Yes, for he is robust in body, and in good health, and is come of the high-plumed dames of Coesyra.	εὐσωματεῖ γὰρ καὶ σφριγᾷ, κἄστʼ ἐκ γυναικῶν εὐπτέρων τῶν Κοισύρας.
I will go for him, and if he be not willing, I will certainly drive him from my house.	ἀτὰρ μέτειμί γʼ αὐτόν· ἢν δὲ μὴ ʼθέλῃ, οὐκ ἔσθʼ ὅπως οὐκ ἐξελῶ κʼ τῆς οἰκίας.
Go in and wait for me a short time.	ἀλλʼ ἐπανάμεινόν μʼ ὀλίγον εἰσελθὼν χρόνον.
