Come now, tell me your own turn of mind; in order that, when I know of what sort it is, I may now, after this, apply to you new engines.	ἄγε δὴ κάτειπέ μοι σὺ τὸν σαυτοῦ τρόπον, ἵνʼ αὐτὸν εἰδὼς ὅστις ἐστὶ μηχανὰς ἤδη ʼπὶ τούτοις πρὸς σὲ καινὰς προσφέρω.
What?	τί δέ;
By the gods, do you purpose to besiege me?	τειχομαχεῖν μοι διανοεῖ πρὸς τῶν θεῶν;
No; I wish to briefly learn from you if you are possessed of a good memory.	οὔκ, ἀλλὰ βραχέα σου πυθέσθαι βούλομαι. ἦ μνημονικὸς εἶ;
In two ways, by Jove!	δύο τρόπω νὴ τὸν Δία·
If anything be owing to me, I have a very good memory; but if I owe unhappy man, I am very forgetful.	ἢν μὲν γὰρ ὀφείληταί τί μοι, μνήμων πάνυ· ἐὰν δʼ ὀφείλω, σχέτλιος, ἐπιλήσμων πάνυ.
Is the power of speaking, pray, implanted in your nature?	ἔνεστι δῆτα μανθάνειν ἐν τῇ φύσει;
Speaking is not in me, but cheating is.	λέγειν μὲν οὐκ ἔνεστʼ, ἀποστερεῖν δʼ ἔνι.
How, then, will you be able to learn?	πῶς οὖν δυνήσει μανθάνειν;
Excellently, of course.	ἀμέλει καλῶς.
Come, then, take care that, whenever I propound any clever dogma about abstruse matters, you catch it up immediately.	ἄγε νυν ὅπως, ὅταν τι προβάλλω σοι σοφὸν περὶ τῶν μετεώρων, εὐθέως ὑφαρπάσει.
What then?	τί δαί;
Am I to feed upon wisdom like a dog?	κυνηδὸν τὴν σοφίαν σιτήσομαι;
This man is ignorant and brutish--I fear, old man, lest you will need blows.	ἄνθρωπος ἀμαθὴς οὑτοσὶ καὶ βάρβαρος. δέδοικά σʼ ὦ πρεσβῦτα μὴ πληγῶν δέει.
Come, let me see; what do you do if any one beat you?	φέρʼ ἴδω τί δρᾷς, ἤν τίς σε τύπτῃ;
I take the beating; and then, when I have waited a little while, I call witnesses to prove it; then again, after a short interval, I go to law.	τύπτομαι, ἔπειτʼ ἐπισχὼν ὀλίγον ἐπιμαρτύρομαι, εἶτʼ αὖθις ἀκαρῆ διαλιπὼν δικάζομαι.
Come, then, lay down your cloak.	ἴθι νυν κατάθου θοἰμάτιον.
Have I done any wrong? No; but it is the rule to enter naked.	ἠδίκηκά τι, οὔκ, ἀλλὰ γυμνοὺς εἰσιέναι νομίζεται.
But I do not enter to search for stolen goods.	ἀλλʼ οὐχὶ φωράσων ἔγωγʼ εἰσέρχομαι.
Lay it down.	κατάθου.
Why do you talk nonsense?	τί ληρεῖς;
Now tell me this, pray.	εἰπὲ δή νύν μοι· τὸ τί;
If I be diligent and learn zealously, to which of your disciples shall I become like?	ἢν ἐπιμελὴς ὦ καὶ προθύμως μανθάνω, τῷ τῶν μαθητῶν ἐμφερὴς γενήσομαι;
You will no way differ from Chaerephon in intellect.	οὐδὲν διοίσεις Χαιρεφῶντος τὴν φύσιν.
Ah me, unhappy! I shall become half-dead.	οἴμοι κακοδαίμων ἡμιθνὴς γενήσομαι.
Don't chatter; but quickly follow me hither with smartness.	οὐ μὴ λαλήσεις, ἀλλʼ ἀκολουθήσεις ἐμοὶ ἀνύσας τι δευρὶ θᾶττον;
Then give me first into my hands a honeyed cake; for I am afraid of descending within, as if into the cave of Trophonius.	ἐς τὼ χεῖρέ νυν δός μοι μελιτοῦτταν πρότερον· ὡς δέδοικʼ ἐγὼ εἴσω καταβαίνων ὥσπερ ἐς Τροφωνίου.
Proceed; why do you keep poking about the door?	χώρει· τί κυπτάζεις ἔχων περὶ τὴν θύραν;
