Hail therefore, O mistresses!	χαίρετε τοίνυν ὦ δέσποιναι·
And now, if ever ye did to any other, to me also utter a voice reaching to heaven, O all-powerful queens.	καὶ νῦν, εἴπερ τινὶ κἄλλῳ, οὐρανομήκη ῥήξατε κἀμοὶ φωνήν, ὦ παμβασίλειαι.
Hail, O ancient veteran, hunter after learned speeches! And thou, O priest of most subtle trifles!	χαῖρʼ ὦ πρεσβῦτα παλαιογενὲς θηρατὰ λόγων φιλομούσων, σύ τε λεπτοτάτων λήρων ἱερεῦ, φράζε πρὸς ἡμᾶς ὅ τι χρῄζεις·
Tell us what you require? For we would not hearken to any other of the recent meteorological sophists, except to Prodicus; to him, on account of his wisdom and intelligence; and to you, because you walk proudly in the streets, and cast your eyes askance, and endure many hardships with bare feet, and in reliance upon us lookest supercilious.	οὐ γὰρ ἂν ἄλλῳ γʼ ὑπακούσαιμεν τῶν νῦν μετεωροσοφιστῶν πλὴν ἢ Προδίκῳ, τῷ μὲν σοφίας καὶ γνώμης οὕνεκα, σοὶ δέ, ὅτι βρενθύει τʼ ἐν ταῖσιν ὁδοῖς καὶ τὠφθαλμὼ παραβάλλεις, κἀνυπόδητος κακὰ πόλλʼ ἀνέχει κἀφʼ ἡμῖν σεμνοπροσωπεῖς.
O Earth, what a voice! How holy and dignified and wondrous!	ὦ γῆ τοῦ φθέγματος, ὡς ἱερὸν καὶ σεμνὸν καὶ τερατῶδες.
For, in fact, these alone are goddesses; and all the rest is nonsense.	αὗται γάρ τοι μόναι εἰσὶ θεαί, τἄλλα δὲ πάντʼ ἐστὶ φλύαρος.
But come, by the Earth, is not Jupiter, the Olympian, a god?	ὁ Ζεὺς δʼ ἡμῖν, φέρε πρὸς τῆς γῆς, οὑλύμπιος οὐ θεός ἐστιν;
What Jupiter?	ποῖος Ζεύς;
Do not trifle.	οὐ μὴ ληρήσεις·
There is no Jupiter.	οὐδʼ ἔστι Ζεύς.
What do you say?	τί λέγεις σύ;
Who rains then?	ἀλλὰ τίς ὕει;
For first of all explain this to me.	τουτὶ γὰρ ἔμοιγʼ ἀπόφηναι πρῶτον ἁπάντων.
These to be sure.	αὗται δήπου·
I will teach you it by powerful evidence.	μεγάλοις δέ σʼ ἐγὼ σημείοις αὐτὸ διδάξω.
Come, where have you ever seen him raining at any time without Clouds?	φέρε ποῦ γὰρ πώποτʼ ἄνευ Νεφελῶν ὕοντʼ ἤδη τεθέασαι;
And yet he ought to rain in fine weather, and these be absent.	καίτοι χρῆν αἰθρίας ὕειν αὐτόν, ταύτας δʼ ἀποδημεῖν.
By Apollo, of a truth you have rightly confirmed this by your present argument.	νὴ τὸν Ἀπόλλω τοῦτό γέ τοι δὴ τῷ νῦν λόγῳ εὖ προσέφυσας·
And yet, before this, I really thought that Jupiter caused the rain.	καίτοι πρότερον τὸν Δίʼ ἀληθῶς ᾤμην διὰ κοσκίνου οὐρεῖν.
But tell me who is it that thunders.	ἀλλʼ ὅστις ὁ βροντῶν ἐστι φράσον·
This makes me tremble.	τοῦτό με ποιεῖ τετρεμαίνειν.
These, as they roll, thunder.	αὗται βροντῶσι κυλινδόμεναι.
In what way? you all-daring man!	τῷ τρόπῳ ὦ πάντα σὺ τολμῶν;
When they are full of much water, and are compelled to be borne along, being necessarily precipitated when full of rain, then they fall heavily upon each other and burst and clap.	ὅταν ἐμπλησθῶσʼ ὕδατος πολλοῦ κἀναγκασθῶσι φέρεσθαι, κατακρημνάμεναι πλήρεις ὄμβρου διʼ ἀνάγκην, εἶτα βαρεῖαι εἰς ἀλλήλας ἐμπίπτουσαι ῥήγνυνται καὶ παταγοῦσιν.
Who is it that compels them to borne along? Is it not Jupiter?	ὁ δʼ ἀναγκάζων ἐστὶ τίς αὐτάς, οὐχ ὁ Ζεύς, ὥστε φέρεσθαι;
By no means, but aethereal Vortex.	ἥκιστʼ ἀλλʼ αἰθέριος Δῖνος.
Vortex?	Δῖνος;
It had escaped my notice that Jupiter did not exist, and that Vortex now reigned in his stead.	τουτί μʼ ἐλελήθειν, ὁ Ζεὺς οὐκ ὤν, ἀλλʼ ἀντʼ αὐτοῦ Δῖνος νυνὶ βασιλεύων.
But you have taught me nothing as yet concerning the clap and the thunder.	ἀτὰρ οὐδέν πω περὶ τοῦ πατάγου καὶ τῆς βροντῆς μʼ ἐδίδαξας.
Have you not heard me, that I said that the Clouds, when full of moisture, dash against each other and clap by reason of their density?	οὐκ ἤκουσάς μου τὰς Νεφέλας ὕδατος μεστὰς ὅτι φημὶ ἐμπιπτούσας εἰς ἀλλήλας παταγεῖν διὰ τὴν πυκνότητα;
Come, how am I to believe this?	φέρε τουτὶ τῷ χρὴ πιστεύειν;
I'll teach you from your own case.	ἀπὸ σαυτοῦ ʼγώ σε διδάξω.
Were you ever, after being stuffed with broth at the Panathenaic festival, then disturbed in your belly, and did a tumult suddenly rumble through it?	ἤδη ζωμοῦ Παναθηναίοις ἐμπλησθεὶς εἶτʼ ἐταράχθης τὴν γαστέρα, καὶ κλόνος ἐξαίφνης αὐτὴν διεκορκορύγησεν;
Yes, by Apollo! And immediately the little broth plays the mischief with me, and is disturbed and rumbles like thunder, and grumbles dreadfully: at first gently pappax, pappax; and then it adds papa-pappax; and finally, it thunders downright papapappax, as they do.	νὴ τὸν Ἀπόλλω καὶ δεινὰ ποιεῖ γʼ εὐθύς μοι, καὶ τετάρακται χὤσπερ βροντὴ τὸ ζωμίδιον παταγεῖ καὶ δεινὰ κέκραγεν· ἀτρέμας πρῶτον παππὰξ παππάξ, κἄπειτʼ ἐπάγει παπαπαππάξ, χὤταν χέζω, κομιδῇ βροντᾷ παπαπαππὰξ ὥσπερ ἐκεῖναι.
