Ah me!	ἰώ μοί μοι.
Ha!	ἔα.
Whoever is this, who is lamenting?	τίς οὑτοσί ποτʼ ἔσθʼ ὁ θρηνῶν;
Surely it was not one of Carcinus' deities that spoke.	οὔτι που τῶν Καρκίνου τις δαιμόνων ἐφθέγξατο;
But why do you wish to know this, who I am?-A miserable man.	τί δʼ ὅστις εἰμὶ τοῦτο βούλεσθʼ εἰδέναι;
Then follow your own path.	ἀνὴρ κακοδαίμων.
O harsh fortune!	κατὰ σεαυτόν νυν τρέπου.
O Fates, breaking the wheels of my horses! O Pallas, how you have destroyed me!	ὦ σκληρὲ δαῖμον, ὦ τύχαι θραυσάντυγες ἵππων ἐμῶν, ὦ Παλλὰς ὥς μʼ ἀπώλεσας.
What evil, pray, has Tlepolemus ever done you?	τί δαί σε Τληπόλεμός ποτʼ εἴργασται κακόν;
Do not jeer me, my friend; but order your son to pay me the money which he received; especially as I have been unfortunate.	μὴ σκῶπτέ μʼ ὦ τᾶν, ἀλλά μοι τὰ χρήματα τὸν υἱὸν ἀποδοῦναι κέλευσον ἅλαβεν, ἄλλως τε μέντοι καὶ κακῶς πεπραγότι.
What money is this?	τὰ ποῖα ταῦτα χρήμαθʼ;
That which he borrowed.	ἁδανείσατο.
Then you were really unlucky, as I think.	κακῶς ἄρʼ ὄντως εἶχες, ὥς γʼ ἐμοὶ δοκεῖς.
By the gods, I fell while driving my horses.	ἵππους ἐλαύνων ἐξέπεσον νὴ τοὺς θεούς.
Why, pray, do you talk nonsense, as if you had fallen from an ass?	τί δῆτα ληρεῖς ὥσπερ ἀπʼ ὄνου καταπεσών;
Do I talk nonsense if I wish to recover my money?	ληρῶ, τὰ χρήματʼ ἀπολαβεῖν εἰ βούλομαι;
You can't be in your senses yourself.	οὐκ ἔσθʼ ὅπως σύ γʼ αὐτὸς ὑγιαίνεις.
Why, pray?	τί δαί;
You appear to me to have had your brains shaken as it were.	τὸν ἐγκέφαλον ὥσπερ σεσεῖσθαί μοι δοκεῖς.
And you appear to me, by Hermes, to be going to be summoned, if you will not pay me the money?	σὺ δὲ νὴ τὸν Ἑρμῆν προσκεκλήσεσθαί γέ μοι, εἰ μὴ ʼποδώσεις τἀργύριον.
Tell me now, whether you think that Jupiter always rains fresh rain on each occasion, or that the sun draws from below the same water back again?	κάτειπέ νυν, πότερα νομίζεις καινὸν ἀεὶ τὸν Δία ὕειν ὕδωρ ἑκάστοτʼ, ἢ τὸν ἥλιον ἕλκειν κάτωθεν ταὐτὸ τοῦθʼ ὕδωρ πάλιν;
I know not which; nor do I care.	οὐκ οἶδʼ ἔγωγʼ ὁπότερον, οὐδέ μοι μέλει.
How then is it just that you should recover your money, if you know nothing of meteorological matters?	πῶς οὖν ἀπολαβεῖν τἀργύριον δίκαιος εἶ, εἰ μηδὲν οἶσθα τῶν μετεώρων πραγμάτων;
Well, if you are in want, pay me the interest of my money.	ἀλλʼ εἰ σπανίζεις, τἀργυρίου μοι τὸν τόκον ἀπόδοτε·
What sort of animal is this interest?	τοῦτο δʼ ἔσθʼ ὁ τόκος τί θηρίον;
Most assuredly the money is always becoming more and more every month and every day as the time slips away.	τί δʼ ἄλλο γʼ ἢ κατὰ μῆνα καὶ καθʼ ἡμέραν πλέον πλέον τἀργύριον ἀεὶ γίγνεται ὑπορρέοντος τοῦ χρόνου;
You say well.	καλῶς λέγεις.
What then?	τί δῆτα;
Is it possible that you consider the sea to be greater now than formerly?	τὴν θάλατταν ἔσθʼ ὅτι πλείονα νυνὶ νομίζεις ἢ πρὸ τοῦ;
No, by Jupiter, but equal; for it is not fitting that it should be greater.	μὰ Δίʼ ἀλλʼ ἴσην. οὐ γὰρ δίκαιον πλείονʼ εἶναι.
And how then, you wretch does this become no way greater, though the rivers flow into it, while you seek to increase your money?	κᾆτα πῶς αὕτη μὲν ὦ κακόδαιμον οὐδὲν γίγνεται ἐπιρρεόντων τῶν ποταμῶν πλείων, σὺ δὲ ζητεῖς ποιῆσαι τἀργύριον πλεῖον τὸ σόν;
Will you not take yourself off from my house?	οὐκ ἀποδιώξει σαυτὸν ἀπὸ τῆς οἰκίας;
Bring me the goad.	φέρε μοι τὸ κέντρον.
I call you to witness these things.	ταῦτʼ ἐγὼ μαρτύρομαι.
Go!	ὕπαγε.
Why do you delay?	τί μέλλεις;
Won't you march, Mr. Blood-horse?	οὐκ ἐλᾷς ὦ σαμφόρα;
Is not this an insult, pray?	ταῦτʼ οὐχ ὕβρις δῆτʼ ἐστίν;
Will you move quickly?	ᾄξεις;
I'll lay on you, goading you behind, you outrigger?	ἐπιαλῶ κεντῶν ὑπὸ τὸν πρωκτόν σε τὸν σειραφόρον.
Do you fly?	φεύγεις;
I thought I should stir you, together with your wheels and your two-horse chariots.	ἔμελλόν σʼ ἆρα κινήσειν ἐγὼ αὐτοῖς τροχοῖς τοῖς σοῖσι καὶ ξυνωρίσιν.
