Why then do we admire Thales?	τί δῆτʼ ἐκεῖνον τὸν Θαλῆν θαυμάζομεν;
Open open quickly the thinking-shop, and show to me Socrates as quickly as possible.	ἄνοιγʼ ἄνοιγʼ ἀνύσας τὸ φροντιστήριον, καὶ δεῖξον ὡς τάχιστά μοι τὸν Σωκράτη.
For I desire to be a disciple.	μαθητιῶ γάρ·
Come, open the door.	ἀλλʼ ἄνοιγε τὴν θύραν.
O Hercules, from what country are these wild beasts?	ὦ Ἡράκλεις ταυτὶ ποδαπὰ τὰ θηρία;
What do you wonder at?	τί ἐθαύμασας;
To what do they seem to you to be like?	τῷ σοι δοκοῦσιν εἰκέναι;
To the Spartans who were taken at Pylos .	τοῖς ἐκ Πύλου ληφθεῖσι τοῖς Λακωνικοῖς.
But why in the world do these look upon the ground?	ἀτὰρ τί ποτʼ ἐς τὴν γῆν βλέπουσιν οὑτοιί;
They are in search of the things below the earth.	ζητοῦσιν οὗτοι τὰ κατὰ γῆς. βολβοὺς ἄρα ζητοῦσι.
Then they are searching for roots.	μή νυν τουτογὶ φροντίζετε·
Do not, then, trouble yourselves about this; for I know where there are large and fine ones.	ἐγὼ γὰρ οἶδʼ ἵνʼ εἰσὶ μεγάλοι καὶ καλοί. τί γὰρ οἵδε δρῶσιν οἱ σφόδρʼ ἐγκεκυφότες;
Why, what are these doing, who are bent down so much?	οὗτοι δʼ ἐρεβοδιφῶσιν ὑπὸ τὸν Τάρταρον.
These are groping about in darkness under Tartarus.	τί δῆθʼ ὁ πρωκτὸς ἐς τὸν οὐρανὸν βλέπει;
Why then does their rump look toward heaven?	αὐτὸς καθʼ αὑτὸν ἀστρονομεῖν διδάσκεται.
It is getting taught astronomy alone by itself.	ἀλλʼ εἴσιθʼ, ἵνα μὴ ʼκεῖνος ὑμῖν ἐπιτύχῃ.
But go in, lest he meet with us.	μήπω γε μήπω γʼ·
Not yet, not yet; but let them remain, that I may communicate to them a little matter of my own.	ἀλλʼ ἐπιμεινάντων, ἵνα αὐτοῖσι κοινώσω τι πραγμάτιον ἐμόν.
It is not permitted to them to remain without in the open air for a very long time.	ἀλλʼ οὐχ οἷόν τʼ αὐτοῖσι πρὸς τὸν ἀέρα ἔξω διατρίβειν πολὺν ἄγαν ἐστὶν χρόνον.
(discovering a variety of mathematical instruments) Why, what is this, in the name of heaven?	πρὸς τῶν θεῶν τί γὰρ τάδʼ ἐστίν;
Tell me.	εἰπέ μοι.
This is Astronomy.	ἀστρονομία μὲν αὑτηί.
But what is this?	τουτὶ δὲ τί;
Geometry.	γεωμετρία.
What then is the use of this?	τοῦτʼ οὖν τί ἐστι χρήσιμον;
To measure out the land.	γῆν ἀναμετρῆσαι.
What belongs to an allotment?	πότερα τὴν κληρουχικήν;
No, but the whole earth.	οὔκ, ἀλλὰ τὴν σύμπασαν.
You tell me a clever notion; for the contrivance is democratic and useful.	ἀστεῖον λέγεις. τὸ γὰρ σόφισμα δημοτικὸν καὶ χρήσιμον.
See, here's a map of the whole earth.	αὕτη δέ σοι γῆς περίοδος πάσης.
Do you see?	ὁρᾷς;
This is Athens .	αἵδε μὲν Ἀθῆναι.
What say you?	τί σὺ λέγεις;
I don't believe you; for I do not see the Dicasts sitting.	οὐ πείθομαι, ἐπεὶ δικαστὰς οὐχ ὁρῶ καθημένους.
Be assured that this is truly the Attic territory.	ὡς τοῦτʼ ἀληθῶς Ἀττικὸν τὸ χωρίον.
Why, where are my fellow-tribesmen of Cicynna?	καὶ ποῦ Κικυννῆς εἰσὶν οὑμοὶ δημόται;
Here they are.	ἐνταῦθʼ ἔνεισιν.
And Euboea here, as you see, is stretched out a long way by the side of it to a great distance.	ἡ δέ γʼ Εὔβοἰ, ὡς ὁρᾷς, ἡδὶ παρατέταται μακρὰ πόρρω πάνυ. οἶδʼ·
I know that; for it was stretched by us and Pericles.	ὑπὸ γὰρ ἡμῶν παρετάθη καὶ Περικλέους.
But where is Lacedaemon ?	ἀλλʼ ἡ Λακεδαίμων ποῦ ʼσθʼ;
Where is it?	ὅπου ʼστίν;
Here it is.	αὑτηί.
How near it is to us!	ὡς ἐγγὺς ἡμῶν.
Pay great attention to this, to remove it very far from us.	τοῦτο πάνυ φροντίζετε, ταύτην ἀφʼ ἡμῶν ἀπαγαγεῖν πόρρω πάνυ.
By Jupiter, it is not possible.	ἀλλʼ οὐχ οἷόν τε.
Then you will weep for it.	νὴ Δίʼ οἰμώξεσθʼ ἄρα.
Come, who is this man who is in the basket?	φέρε τίς γὰρ οὗτος οὑπὶ τῆς κρεμάθρας ἀνήρ;
Himself.	αὐτός.
Who's Himself ?	τίς αὐτός;
Socrates.	Σωκράτης.
O Socrates!	ὦ Σώκρατες.
Come, you sir, call upon him loudly for me.	ἴθʼ οὗτος, ἀναβόησον αὐτόν μοι μέγα.
Nay, rather, call him yourself; for I have no leisure.	αὐτὸς μὲν οὖν σὺ κάλεσον· οὐ γάρ μοι σχολή.
