Then, ought a man to throw away any part of his own property?	εἶτʼ ἄνδρα τῶν αὑτοῦ τι χρὴ προϊέναι;
Never! But it were better then at once to put away blushes, rather than now to have trouble; since I am now dragging you to be a witness, for the sake of my own money; and further, in addition to this, I shall become an enemy to my fellow-tribesman.	οὐδέποτέ γʼ, ἀλλὰ κρεῖττον εὐθὺς ἦν τότε ἀπερυθριᾶσαι μᾶλλον ἢ σχεῖν πράγματα, ὅτε τῶν ἐμαυτοῦ γʼ ἕνεκα νυνὶ χρημάτων ἕλκω σε κλητεύσοντα, καὶ γενήσομαι ἐχθρὸς ἔτι πρὸς τούτοισιν ἀνδρὶ δημότῃ.
But never, while I live, will I disgrace my country, but will summon Strepsiades.	ἀτὰρ οὐδέποτέ γε τὴν πατρίδα καταισχυνῶ ζῶν, ἀλλὰ καλοῦμαι Στρεψιάδην — τίς οὑτοσί;
Who's there? For the Old and New.	ἐς τὴν ἕνην τε καὶ νέαν.
I call you to witness, that he has named it for two days.	μαρτύρομαι, ὅτι ἐς δύʼ εἶπεν ἡμέρας.
For what matter do you summon me?	τοῦ χρήματος;
For the twelve minae, which you received when you were buying the dapple-gray horse.	τῶν δώδεκα μνῶν, ἃς ἔλαβες ὠνούμενος τὸν ψαρὸν ἵππον.
A horse?	ἵππον;
Do you not hear?	οὐκ ἀκούετε;
I, whom you all know to hate horsemanship! And, by Jupiter!	ὃν πάντες ὑμεῖς ἴστε μισοῦνθʼ ἱππικήν.
You swore by the gods too, that you would repay it.	καὶ νὴ Δίʼ ἀποδώσειν γʼ ἐπώμνυς τοὺς θεούς.
Ay, by Jove! For then my Phidippides did not yet know the irrefragable argument.	μὰ τὸν Δίʼ οὐ γάρ πω τότʼ ἐξηπίστατο Φειδιππίδης μοι τὸν ἀκατάβλητον λόγον.
And do you now intend, on this account, to deny the debt?	νῦν δὲ διὰ τοῦτʼ ἔξαρνος εἶναι διανοεῖ;
Why, what good should I get else from his instruction?	τί γὰρ ἄλλʼ ἂν ἀπολαύσαιμι τοῦ μαθήματος;
And will you be willing to deny these upon oath of the gods?	καὶ ταῦτʼ ἐθελήσεις ἀπομόσαι μοι τοὺς θεοὺς ἵνʼ ἂν κελεύσω ʼγώ σε;
What gods?	τοὺς ποίους θεούς;
Jupiter, Mercury, and Neptune. Yes, by Jupiter!	τὸν Δία, τὸν Ἑρμῆν, τὸν Ποσειδῶ.
And would pay down, too, a three-obol piece besides to swear.	νὴ Δία κἂν προσκαταθείην γʼ ὥστʼ ὀμόσαι τριώβολον.
Then may you perish some day for your impudence!	ἀπόλοιο τοίνυν ἕνεκʼ ἀναιδείας ἔτι.
This man would be the better for it if he were cleansed by rubbing with salt.	ἁλσὶν διασμηχθεὶς ὄναιτʼ ἂν οὑτοσί.
Ah me, how you deride me!	οἴμʼ ὡς καταγελᾷς.
He will contain six choae.	ἓξ χοᾶς χωρήσεται.
By great Jupiter and the gods, you certainly shall not do this to me with impunity!	οὔ τοι μὰ τὸν Δία τὸν μέγαν καὶ τοὺς θεοὺς ἐμοῦ καταπροίξει.
I like your gods amazingly; and Jupiter, sworn by, is ridiculous to the knowing ones.	θαυμασίως ἥσθην θεοῖς, καὶ Ζεὺς γέλοιος ὀμνύμενος τοῖς εἰδόσιν.
You will assuredly suffer punishment, some time or other, for this.	ἦ μὴν σὺ τούτων τῷ χρόνῳ δώσεις δίκην.
But answer and dismiss me, whether you are going to repay me my money or not.	ἀλλʼ εἴτʼ ἀποδώσεις μοι τὰ χρήματʼ εἴτε μή, ἀπόπεμψον ἀποκρινάμενος.
Keep quiet now, for I will presently answer you distinctly. (to his summons-witness).	ἔχε νυν ἥσυχος. ἐγὼ γὰρ αὐτίκʼ ἀποκρινοῦμαί σοι σαφῶς.
What do you think he will do?	τί σοι δοκεῖ δράσειν;
I think he will pay you.	ἀποδώσειν μοι δοκεῖ.
Where is this man who asks me for his money?	ποῦ ʼσθʼ οὗτος ἁπαιτῶν με τἀργύριον;
Tell me what is this?	λέγε τουτὶ τί ἔστι;
What is this?	τοῦθʼ ὅ τι ἐστί;
A kardopos.	κάρδοπος.
And do you then ask me for your money, being such an ignorant person?	ἔπειτʼ ἀπαιτεῖς τἀργύριον τοιοῦτος ὤν;
I would not pay, not even an obolus, to any one who called the kardope kardopos.	οὐκ ἂν ἀποδοίην οὐδʼ ἂν ὀβολὸν οὐδενί, ὅστις καλέσειε κάρδοπον τὴν καρδόπην.
Then won't you pay me?	οὐκ ἄρʼ ἀποδώσεις;
Not, as far as I know.	οὐχ ὅσον γέ μʼ εἰδέναι.
Will you not then pack off as fast as possible from my door?	οὔκουν ἀνύσας τι θᾶττον ἀπολιταργιεῖς ἀπὸ τῆς θύρας;
I will depart; and be assured of this, that I will make deposit against you, or may I live no longer!	ἄπειμι, καὶ τοῦτʼ ἴσθʼ ὅτι θήσω πρυτανεῖʼ ἢ μηκέτι ζῴην ἐγώ.
Then you will lose it besides, in addition to your twelve minae.	καὶ προσαπολεῖς ἄρʼ αὐτὰ πρὸς ταῖς δώδεκα.
And yet I do not wish you to suffer this, because you named the kardopos floolishly.	καίτοι σε τοῦτό γʼ οὐχὶ βούλομαι παθεῖν, ὁτιὴ ʼκάλεσας εὐηθικῶς τὴν κάρδοπον.
