Well, now, I will tell you from what we first began to rail at one another.	καὶ μὴν ὅθεν γε πρῶτον ἠρξάμεσθα λοιδορεῖσθαι ἐγὼ φράσω·
After we had feasted, as you know, I first bade him take a lyre, and sing a song of Simonides, The Shearing of the Ram.	ʼπειδὴ γὰρ εἱστιώμεθʼ, ὥσπερ ἴστε, πρῶτον μὲν αὐτὸν τὴν λύραν λαβόντʼ ἐγὼ ʼκέλευσα ᾆσαι Σιμωνίδου μέλος, τὸν Κριὸν ὡς ἐπέχθη.
But he immediately said it was old-fashioned to play on the lyre and sing while drinking, like a woman grinding parched barley.	ὁ δʼ εὐθέως ἀρχαῖον εἶνʼ ἔφασκε τὸ κιθαρίζειν ᾄδειν τε πίνονθʼ ὡσπερεὶ κάχρυς γυναῖκʼ ἀλοῦσαν.
For ought you not then immediately to be beaten and trampled on, bidding me sing, just as if you were entertaining cicadae?	οὐ γὰρ τότʼ εὐθὺς χρῆν σʼ ἄρα τύπτεσθαί τε καὶ πατεῖσθαι, ᾄδειν κελεύονθʼ ὡσπερεὶ τέττιγας ἑστιῶντα;
He expressed, however, such opinions then too within, as he does now; and he asserted that Simonides was a bad poet.	τοιαῦτα μέντοι καὶ τότʼ ἔλεγεν ἔνδον οἷάπερ νῦν, καὶ τὸν Σιμωνίδην ἔφασκʼ εἶναι κακὸν ποιητήν. κἀγὼ μόλις μὲν ἀλλʼ ὅμως ἠνεσχόμην τὸ πρῶτον·
I bore it at first, with difficulty indeed, yet nevertheless I bore it.	ἔπειτα δʼ ἐκέλευσʼ αὐτὸν ἀλλὰ μυρρίνην λαβόντα τῶν Αἰσχύλου λέξαι τί μοι·
And then I bade him at least take a myrtle-wreath and recite to me some portion of Aeschylus; and then he immediately said, Shall I consider Aeschylus the first among the poets, full of empty sound, unpolished, bombastic, using rugged words?	κᾆθʼ οὗτος εὐθὺς εἶπεν· ἐγὼ γὰρ Αἰσχύλον νομίζω πρῶτον ἐν ποιηταῖς, ψόφου πλέων ἀξύστατον στόμφακα κρημνοποιόν;
And hereupon you can't think how my heart panted.	κἀνταῦθα πῶς οἴεσθέ μου τὴν καρδίαν ὀρεχθεῖν;
But, nevertheless, I restrained my passion, and said, At least recite some passage of the more modern poets, of whatever kind these clever things be.	ὅμως δὲ τὸν θυμὸν δακὼν ἔφην, σὺ δʼ ἀλλὰ τούτων λέξον τι τῶν νεωτέρων, ἅττʼ ἐστὶ τὰ σοφὰ ταῦτα.
And he immediately sang a passage of Euripides, how a brother, O averter of ill! Debauched his uterine sister.	ὁ δʼ εὐθὺς ᾖσʼ Εὐριπίδου ῥῆσίν τινʼ, ὡς ἐκίνει ἀδελφὸς ὦλεξίκακε τὴν ὁμομητρίαν ἀδελφήν.
And I bore it no longer, but immediately assailed him with many abusive reproaches.	κἀγὼ οὐκέτʼ ἐξηνεσχόμην, ἀλλʼ εὐθέως ἀράττω πολλοῖς κακοῖς καἰσχροῖσι·
And then, after that, as was natural, we hurled word upon word.	κᾆτʼ ἐντεῦθεν, οἷον εἰκός, ἔπος πρὸς ἔπος ἠρειδόμεσθʼ·
Then he springs upon me; and then he was wounding me, and beating me, and throttling me.	εἶθʼ οὗτος ἐπαναπηδᾶ, κἄπειτʼ ἔφλα με κἀσπόδει κἄπνιγε κἀπέθλιβεν.
Were you not therefore justly beaten, who do not praise Euripides, the wisest of poets?	οὔκουν δικαίως, ὅστις οὐκ Εὐριπίδην ἐπαινεῖς σοφώτατον;
He the wisest! Oh, what shall I call you?	σοφώτατόν γʼ ἐκεῖνον·ὦ — τί σʼ εἴπω;
But I shall be beaten again.	ἀλλʼ αὖθις αὖ τυπτήσομαι.
Yes, by Jupiter, with justice.	νὴ τὸν Δίʼ ἐν δίκῃ γʼ ἄν.
Why, how with justice?	καὶ πῶς δικαίως;
Who, O shameless fellow, reared you, understanding all your wishes, when you lisped what you meant?	ὅστις ὦ ʼναίσχυντέ σʼ ἐξέθρεψα, αἰσθανόμενός σου πάντα τραυλίζοντος, ὅ τι νοοίης.
If you said bryn, I, understanding it, used to give you to drink.	εἰ μέν γε βρῦν εἴποις, ἐγὼ γνοὺς ἂν πιεῖν ἐπέσχον·
And when you asked for mamman, I used to come to you with bread.	μαμμᾶν δʼ ἂν αἰτήσαντος ἧκόν σοι φέρων ἂν ἄρτον·
And you used no sooner to say caccan, than I used to take and carry you out of doors, and hold you before me.	κακκᾶν δʼ ἂν οὐκ ἔφθης φράσας, κἀγὼ λαβὼν θύραζε ἐξέφερον ἂν καὶ προὐσχόμην σε· σὺ δʼ ἐμὲ νῦν ἀπάγχων
