My little Socrates!	ὦ Σώκρατες, ὦ Σωκρατίδιον.
Why callest thou me, thou creature of a day?	τί με καλεῖς ὦφήμερε;
First tell me, I beseech you, what are you doing.	πρῶτον μὲν ὅ τι δρᾷς ἀντιβολῶ κάτειπέ μοι.
I am walking in the air, and speculating about the sun.	ἀεροβατῶ καὶ περιφρονῶ τὸν ἥλιον.
And so you look down upon the gods from your basket, and not from the earth?	ἔπειτʼ ἀπὸ ταρροῦ τοὺς θεοὺς ὑπερφρονεῖς, ἀλλʼ οὐκ ἀπὸ τῆς γῆς, εἴπερ;
For I should not have rightly discovered things celestial if I had not suspended the intellect, and mixed the thought in a subtle form with its kindred air.	οὐ γὰρ ἄν ποτε ἐξηῦρον ὀρθῶς τὰ μετέωρα πράγματα, εἰ μὴ κρεμάσας τὸ νόημα καὶ τὴν φροντίδα λεπτὴν καταμείξας ἐς τὸν ὅμοιον ἀέρα.
But if, being on the ground, I speculated from below on things above, I should never have discovered them.	εἰ δʼ ὢν χαμαὶ τἄνω κάτωθεν ἐσκόπουν, οὐκ ἄν ποθʼ ηὗρον·
For the earth forcibly attracts to itself the meditative moisture.	οὐ γὰρ ἀλλʼ ἡ γῆ βίᾳ ἕλκει πρὸς αὑτὴν τὴν ἰκμάδα τῆς φροντίδος.
Water-cresses also suffer the very same thing.	πάσχει δὲ ταὐτὸ τοῦτο καὶ τὰ κάρδαμα.
What do you say?	τί φῄς;
Does meditation attract the moisture to the water-cresses?	ἡ φροντὶς ἕλκει τὴν ἰκμάδʼ ἐς τὰ κάρδαμα;
Come then, my little Socrates, descend to me, that you may teach me those things, for the sake of which I have come.	ἴθι νυν κατάβηθʼ ὦ Σωκρατίδιον ὡς ἐμέ, ἵνα με διδάξῃς ὧνπερ οὕνεκʼ ἐλήλυθα.
And for what did you come?	ἦλθες δὲ κατὰ τί;
Wishing to learn to speak; for by reason of usury, and most ill-natured creditors, I am pillaged and plundered, and have my goods seized for debt.	βουλόμενος μαθεῖν λέγειν. ὑπὸ γὰρ τόκων χρήστων τε δυσκολωτάτων ἄγομαι φέρομαι, τὰ χρήματʼ ἐνεχυράζομαι.
How did you get in debt without observing it?	πόθεν δʼ ὑπόχρεως σαυτὸν ἔλαθες γενόμενος;
A horse-disease consumed me--terrible at eating.	νόσος μʼ ἐπέτριψεν ἱππικὴ δεινὴ φαγεῖν.
But teach me the other one of your two causes, that which pays nothing; and I will swear by the gods, I will pay down to you whatever reward you exact of me.	ἀλλά με δίδαξον τὸν ἕτερον τοῖν σοῖν λόγοιν, τὸν μηδὲν ἀποδιδόντα. μισθὸν δʼ ὅντινʼ ἂν πράττῃ μʼ ὀμοῦμαί σοι καταθήσειν τοὺς θεούς.
By what gods will you swear?	ποίους θεοὺς ὀμεῖ σύ;
For, in the first place, gods are not a current coin with us.	πρῶτον γὰρ θεοὶ ἡμῖν νόμισμʼ οὐκ ἔστι.
By what do you swear?	τῷ γὰρ ὄμνυτʼ;
By iron money, as in Byzantium ?	ἢ σιδαρέοισιν ὥσπερ ἐν Βυζαντίῳ;
Do you wish to know clearly celestial matters, what they rightly are?	βούλει τὰ θεῖα πράγματʼ εἰδέναι σαφῶς ἅττʼ ἐστὶν ὀρθῶς;
Yes, by Jupiter, if it be possible!	νὴ Δίʼ εἴπερ ἔστι γε.
And to hold converse with the Clouds, our divinities?	καὶ ξυγγενέσθαι ταῖς Νεφέλαισιν ἐς λόγους, ταῖς ἡμετέραισι δαίμοσιν;
By all means.	μάλιστά γε.
Seat yourself, then, upon the sacred couch.	κάθιζε τοίνυν ἐπὶ τὸν ἱερὸν σκίμποδα.
Well, I am seated!	ἰδοὺ κάθημαι.
Take, then, this chaplet.	τουτονὶ τοίνυν λαβὲ τὸν στέφανον.
For what purpose a chaplet?	ἐπὶ τί στέφανον;
Ah me! Socrates, see that you do not sacrifice me like Athamas!	οἴμοι Σώκρατες ὥσπερ με τὸν Ἀθάμανθʼ ὅπως μὴ θύσετε.
No; we do all these to those who get initiated.	οὔκ, ἀλλὰ ταῦτα πάντα τοὺς τελουμένους ἡμεῖς ποιοῦμεν.
Then what shall I gain, pray?	εἶτα δὴ τί κερδανῶ;
You shall become in oratory a tricky knave, a thorough rattle, a subtle speaker.	λέγειν γενήσει τρῖμμα κρόταλον παιπάλη.
But keep quiet.	ἀλλʼ ἔχʼ ἀτρεμί.
