I will, therefore, describe the ancient system of education, how it was ordered, when I flourished in the advocacy of justice, and temperance was the fashion.	λέξω τοίνυν τὴν ἀρχαίαν παιδείαν ὡς διέκειτο, ὅτʼ ἐγὼ τὰ δίκαια λέγων ἤνθουν καὶ σωφροσύνη ʼνενόμιστο. πρῶτον μὲν ἔδει παιδὸς φωνὴν γρύξαντος μηδὲν ἀκοῦσαι·
In the first place it was incumbent that no one should hear the voice of a boy uttering a syllable; and next, that those from the same quarter of the town should march in good order through the streets to the school of the harp-master, naked, and in a body, even if it were to snow as thick as meal.	εἶτα βαδίζειν ἐν ταῖσιν ὁδοῖς εὐτάκτως ἐς κιθαριστοῦ τοὺς κωμήτας γυμνοὺς ἁθρόους, κεἰ κριμνώδη κατανείφοι. εἶτʼ αὖ προμαθεῖν ᾆσμʼ ἐδίδασκεν τὼ μηρὼ μὴ ξυνέχοντας, ἢ Παλλάδα περσέπολιν δεινὰν ἢ τηλέπορόν τι βόαμα, ἐντειναμένους τὴν ἁρμονίαν, ἣν οἱ πατέρες παρέδωκαν.
Then again, their master would teach them, not sitting cross-legged, to learn by rote a song, either pallada persepolin deinan or teleporon ti boama raising to a higher pitch the harmony which our fathers transmitted to us.	εἰ δέ τις αὐτῶν βωμολοχεύσαιτʼ ἢ κάμψειέν τινα καμπήν, οἵας οἱ νῦν τὰς κατὰ Φρῦνιν ταύτας τὰς δυσκολοκάμπτους, ἐπετρίβετο τυπτόμενος πολλὰς ὡς τὰς Μούσας ἀφανίζων.
But if any of them were to play the buffoon, or to turn any quavers, like these difficult turns the present artists make after the manner of Phrynis, he used to be thrashed, being beaten with many blows, as banishing the Muses.	ἐν παιδοτρίβου δὲ καθίζοντας τὸν μηρὸν ἔδει προβαλέσθαι τοὺς παῖδας, ὅπως τοῖς ἔξωθεν μηδὲν δείξειαν ἀπηνές·
And it behooved the boys, while sitting in the school of the Gymnastic-master, to cover the thigh, so that they might exhibit nothing indecent to those outside; then again, after rising from the ground, to sweep the sand together, and to take care not to leave an impression of the person for their lovers.	εἶτʼ αὖ πάλιν αὖθις ἀνιστάμενον συμψῆσαι, καὶ προνοεῖσθαι εἴδωλον τοῖσιν ἐρασταῖσιν τῆς ἥβης μὴ καταλείπειν. ἠλείψατο δʼ ἂν τοὐμφαλοῦ οὐδεὶς παῖς ὑπένερθεν τότʼ ἄν, ὥστε τοῖς αἰδοίοισι δρόσος καὶ χνοῦς ὥσπερ μήλοισιν ἐπήνθει·
And no boy used in those days to anoint himself below the navel; so that their bodies wore the appearance of blooming health. Nor used he to go to his lover, having made up his voice in an effeminate tone, prostituting himself with his eyes.	οὐδʼ ἂν μαλακὴν φυρασάμενος τὴν φωνὴν πρὸς τὸν ἐραστὴν αὐτὸς ἑαυτὸν προαγωγεύων τοῖς ὀφθαλμοῖς ἐβάδιζεν, οὐδʼ ἀνελέσθαι δειπνοῦντʼ ἐξῆν καὶ κεφάλαιον ῥαφανῖδος, οὐδʼ ἄννηθον τῶν πρεσβυτέρων ἁρπάζειν οὐδὲ σέλινον, οὐδʼ ὀψοφαγεῖν οὐδὲ κιχλίζειν οὐδʼ ἴσχειν τὼ πόδʼ ἐναλλάξ.
Nor used it to be allowed when one was dining to take the head of the radish, or to snatch from their seniors dill or parsley, or to eat fish, or to giggle, or to keep the legs crossed.	ἀρχαῖά γε καὶ Διιπολιώδη καὶ τεττίγων ἀνάμεστα καὶ Κηκείδου καὶ Βουφονίων. ἀλλʼ οὖν ταῦτʼ ἐστὶν ἐκεῖνα,
