But go and gnaw the columns of Megacles.	οὔτοι μὰ τὴν Ὁμίχλην ἔτʼ ἐνταυθοῖ μενεῖς·
My good sir, what is the matter with you, O father?	ἀλλʼ ἔσθιʼ ἐλθὼν τοὺς Μεγακλέους κίονας.
You are not in your senses, by Olympian Jupiter!	ὦ δαιμόνιε, τί χρῆμα πάσχεις ὦ πάτερ;
See, see, Olympian Jupiter!	οὐκ εὖ φρονεῖς μὰ τὸν Δία τὸν Ὀλύμπιον.
What folly!	ἰδού γʼ ἰδού, Δίʼ Ὀλύμπιον·
To think of your believing in Jupiter, as old as you are!	τῆς μωρίας, τὸν Δία νομίζειν ὄντα τηλικουτονί.
Why, pray, did you laugh at this?	τί δὲ τοῦτʼ ἐγέλασας ἐτεόν;
Reflecting that you are a child, and have antiquated notions.	ἐνθυμούμενος ὅτι παιδάριον εἶ καὶ φρονεῖς ἀρχαιϊκά.
Yet, however, approach, that you may know more; and I will tell you a thing, by learning which you will be a man.	ὅμως γε μὴν πρόσελθʼ, ἵνʼ εἰδῇς πλείονα, καί σοι φράσω τι πρᾶγμʼ ὃ μαθὼν ἀνὴρ ἔσει.
But see that you do not teach this to any one.	ὅπως δὲ τοῦτο μὴ διδάξεις μηδένα.
Well, what is it?	ἰδού· τί ἔστιν;
You swore now by Jupiter.	ὤμοσας νυνὶ Δία.
I did.	ἔγωγʼ.
Seest thou, then, how good a thing is learning?	ὁρᾷς οὖν ὡς ἀγαθὸν τὸ μανθάνειν;
There is no Jupiter, O Phidippides!	οὐκ ἔστιν ὦ Φειδιππίδη Ζεύς.
Who then?	ἀλλὰ τίς;
Vortex reigns, having expelled Jupiter. Bah!	Δῖνος βασιλεύει τὸν Δίʼ ἐξεληλακώς.
Why do you talk foolishly?	αἰβοῖ τί ληρεῖς;
Be assured that it is so.	ἴσθι τοῦθʼ οὕτως ἔχον.
Who says this?	τίς φησι ταῦτα;
Socrates the Melian, and Chaerephon, who knows the footmarks of fleas.	Σωκράτης ὁ Μήλιος καὶ Χαιρεφῶν, ὃς οἶδε τὰ ψυλλῶν ἴχνη.
Have you arrived at such a pitch of frenzy that you believe madmen?	σὺ δʼ ἐς τοσοῦτον τῶν μανιῶν ἐλήλυθας ὥστʼ ἀνδράσιν πείθει χολῶσιν;
Speak words of good omen, and say nothing bad of clever men and wise; of whom, through frugality, none ever shaved or anointed himself, or went to a bath to wash himself; while you squander my property in bathing, as if I were already dead.	εὐστόμει καὶ μηδὲν εἴπῃς φλαῦρον ἄνδρας δεξιοὺς καὶ νοῦν ἔχοντας· ὧν ὑπὸ τῆς φειδωλίας ἀπεκείρατʼ οὐδεὶς πώποτʼ οὐδʼ ἠλείψατο, οὐδʼ ἐς βαλανεῖον ἦλθε λουσόμενος·
But go as quickly as possible and learn instead of me.	σὺ δὲ ὥσπερ τεθνεῶτος καταλόει μου τὸν βίον. ἀλλʼ ὡς τάχιστʼ ἐλθὼν ὑπὲρ ἐμοῦ μάνθανε.
What good could any one learn from them?	τί δʼ ἂν παρʼ ἐκείνων καὶ μάθοι χρηστόν τις ἄν;
What, really?	ἄληθες;
Whatever wisdom there is among men.	ὅσαπερ ἔστʼ ἐν ἀνθρώποις σοφά·
And you will know yourself, how ignorant and stupid you are.	γνώσει δὲ σαυτὸν ὡς ἀμαθὴς εἶ καὶ παχύς.
But wait for me here a short time. Ah me!	ἀλλʼ ἐπανάμεινόν μʼ ὀλίγον ἐνταυθοῖ χρόνον.
What shall I do, my father being crazed?	οἴμοι τί δράσω παραφρονοῦντος τοῦ πατρός;
Shall I bring him into court and convict him of lunacy, or shall I give information of his madness to the coffin-makers?	πότερον παρανοίας αὐτὸν εἰσαγαγὼν ἕλω, ἢ τοῖς σοροπηγοῖς τὴν μανίαν αὐτοῦ φράσω;
Come, let me see; what do you consider this to be?	φέρʼ ἴδω, σὺ τοῦτον τί ὀνομάζεις;
Tell me.	εἰπέ μοι.
Alectryon.	ἀλεκτρυόνα.
Right.	καλῶς γε.
And what this?	ταυτηνὶ δὲ τί;
Alectryon.	ἀλεκτρυόνʼ.
Both the same?	ἄμφω ταὐτό;
You are very ridiculous.	καταγέλαστος εἶ.
Do not do so, then, for the future; but call this alektryaina, and this one alektor.	μή νυν τὸ λοιπόν, ἀλλὰ τήνδε μὲν καλεῖν ἀλεκτρύαιναν τουτονὶ δʼ ἀλέκτορα.
Alektryaina!	ἀλεκτρύαιναν;
Did you learn these clever things by going in just now to the Titans?	ταῦτʼ ἔμαθες τὰ δεξιὰ εἴσω παρελθὼν ἄρτι παρὰ τοὺς γηγενεῖς;
