Consider, therefore, how you have trumpeted from a little belly so small; and how is it not probable that this air, being boundless, should thunder so loudly?	τὸν δʼ Ἀέρα τόνδʼ ὄντʼ ἀπέραντον πῶς οὐκ εἰκὸς μέγα βροντᾶν;	0.233945
For this reason, therefore, the two names also Trump and Thunder, are similar to each other.	ταῦτʼ ἄρα καὶ τὠνόματʼ ἀλλήλοιν βροντὴ καὶ πορδὴ ὁμοίω.	0.203846
	ἀλλʼ ὁ κεραυνὸς πόθεν αὖ φέρεται λάμπων πυρί, τοῦτο δίδαξον, καὶ καταφρύγει βάλλων ἡμᾶς, τοὺς δὲ ζῶντας περιφλύει;	-0.3
But teach me this, whence comes the thunderbolt blazing with fire, and burns us to ashes when it smites us, and singes those who survive.	τοῦτον γὰρ δὴ φανερῶς ὁ Ζεὺς ἵησʼ ἐπὶ τοὺς ἐπιόρκους.	0.254545
	καὶ πῶς ὦ μῶρε σὺ καὶ Κρονίων ὄζων καὶ βεκκεσέληνε, εἴπερ βάλλει τοὺς ἐπιόρκους, δῆτʼ οὐχὶ Σίμωνʼ ἐνέπρησεν οὐδὲ Κλεώνυμον οὐδὲ Θέωρον;	-0.3
For indeed Jupiter evidently hurls this at the perjured.	καίτοι σφόδρα γʼ εἴσʼ ἐπίορκοι·	0.25102
Why, how then, you foolish person, and savouring of the dark ages and antediluvian, if his manner is to smite the perjured, does he not blast Simon, and Cleonymus, and Theorus?	ἀλλὰ τὸν αὑτοῦ γε νεὼν βάλλει καὶ Σούνιον ἄκρον Ἀθηνέων καὶ τὰς δρῦς τὰς μεγάλας·	0.297959
And yet they are very perjured.	τί μαθών;	0.09375
But he smites his own temple, and Sunium the promontory of Athens , and the tall oaks.	οὐ γὰρ δὴ δρῦς γʼ ἐπιορκεῖ.	0.174
Wherefore, for indeed an oak does not commit perjury.	οὐκ οἶδʼ·	-0.126316
I do not know; but you seem to speak well.	ἀτὰρ εὖ σὺ λέγειν φαίνει.	0.194118
For what, pray, is the thunderbolt?	τί γάρ ἐστιν δῆθʼ ὁ κεραυνός;	0.106452
When a dry wind, having been raised aloft, is inclosed in these Clouds, it inflates them within, like a bladder; and then, of necessity, having burst them, it rushes out with vehemence by reason of its density, setting fire to itself through its rushing and impetuosity.	ὅταν ἐς ταύτας ἄνεμος ξηρὸς μετεωρισθεὶς κατακλῃσθῇ, ἔνδοθεν αὐτὰς ὥσπερ κύστιν φυσᾷ, κἄπειθʼ ὑπʼ ἀνάγκης ῥήξας αὐτὰς ἔξω φέρεται σοβαρὸς διὰ τὴν πυκνότητα, ὑπὸ τοῦ ῥοίβδου καὶ τῆς ῥύμης αὐτὸς ἑαυτὸν κατακάων.	0.0876106
By Jupiter, of a truth I once experienced this exactly at the Diasian festival!	νὴ Δίʼ ἐγὼ γοῦν ἀτεχνῶς ἔπαθον τουτί ποτε Διασίοισιν ὀπτῶν γαστέρα τοῖς συγγενέσιν, κᾆτʼ οὐκ ἔσχων ἀμελήσας·	-0.286567
I was roasting a haggis for my kinsfolk, and through neglect I did not cut it open; but it became inflated and then suddenly bursting, befouled my eyes and burned my face. ~~~ O mortal, who hast desired great wisdom from us!	ἡ δʼ ἄρʼ ἐφυσᾶτʼ, εἶτʼ ἐξαίφνης διαλακήσασα πρὸς αὐτὼ τὠφθαλμώ μου προσετίλησεν καὶ κατέκαυσεν τὸ πρόσωπον.	-0.00983607
	ὦ τῆς μεγάλης ἐπιθυμήσας σοφίας ἄνθρωπε παρʼ ἡμῶν, ὡς εὐδαίμων ἐν Ἀθηναίοις καὶ τοῖς Ἕλλησι γενήσει, εἰ μνήμων εἶ καὶ φροντιστὴς καὶ τὸ ταλαίπωρον ἔνεστιν ἐν τῇ ψυχῇ, καὶ μὴ κάμνεις μήθʼ ἑστὼς μήτε βαδίζων, μήτε ῥιγῶν ἄχθει λίαν μήτʼ ἀριστᾶν ἐπιθυμεῖς, οἴνου τʼ ἀπέχει καὶ γυμνασίων καὶ τῶν ἄλλων ἀνοήτων, καὶ βέλτιστον τοῦτο νομίζεις, ὅπερ εἰκὸς δεξιὸν ἄνδρα, νικᾶν πράττων καὶ βουλεύων καὶ τῇ γλώττῃ πολεμίζων.	-0.3
How happy will you become among the Athenians and among the Greeks, if you be possessed of a good memory, and be a deep thinker, and endurance of labour be implanted in your soul, and you be not wearied either by standing or walking, nor be exceedingly vexed at shivering with cold, nor long to break your fast, and you refrain from wine, and gymnastics, and the other follies, and consider this the highest excellence, as is proper a clever man should, to conquer by action and counsel, and by battling with your tongue.	ἀλλʼ οὕνεκά γε ψυχῆς στερρᾶς δυσκολοκοίτου τε μερίμνης καὶ φειδωλοῦ καὶ τρυσιβίου γαστρὸς καὶ θυμβρεπιδείπνου, ἀμέλει θαρρῶν οὕνεκα τούτων ἐπιχαλκεύειν παρέχοιμʼ ἄν.	0.172425
As far as regards a sturdy spirit, and care that makes one's bed uneasy, and a frugal spirit and hard-living and savory-eating belly, be of good courage and don't trouble yourself; I would offer myself to hammer on, for that matter.	ἄλλο τι δῆτʼ οὖν νομιεῖς ἤδη θεὸν οὐδένα πλὴν ἅπερ ἡμεῖς, τὸ Χάος τουτὶ καὶ τὰς Νεφέλας καὶ τὴν γλῶτταν, τρία ταυτί;	0.279793
Will you not, pray, now believe in no god, except what we believe in--this Chaos, and the Clouds, and the Tongue--these three?	οὐδʼ ἂν διαλεχθείην γʼ ἀτεχνῶς τοῖς ἄλλοις οὐδʼ ἂν ἀπαντῶν·	0.285849
Absolutely I would not even converse with the others, not even if I met them; nor would I sacrifice to them, nor make libations, nor offer frankincense.	οὐδʼ ἂν θύσαιμʼ, οὐδʼ ἂν σπείσαιμʼ, οὐδʼ ἐπιθείην λιβανωτόν.	0.247222
Tell us then boldly, what we must do for you? ~~~ For you shall not fail in getting it, if you honour and admire us, and seek to become clever.	λέγε νυν ἡμῖν ὅ τι σοι δρῶμεν θαρρῶν, ὡς οὐκ ἀτυχήσεις ἡμᾶς τιμῶν καὶ θαυμάζων καὶ ζητῶν δεξιὸς εἶναι.	-0.0907895
	ὦ δέσποιναι δέομαι τοίνυν ὑμῶν τουτὶ πάνυ μικρόν, τῶν Ἑλλήνων εἶναί με λέγειν ἑκατὸν σταδίοισιν ἄριστον.	-0.3
O mistresses, I request of you then this very small favour, that I be the best of the Greeks in speaking by a hundred stadia.	ἀλλʼ ἔσται σοι τοῦτο παρʼ ἡμῶν·	0.0724138
Well, you shall have this from us, so that hence-forward from this time no one shall get more opinions passed in the public assemblies than you.	ὥστε τὸ λοιπόν γʼ ἀπὸ τουδὶ ἐν τῷ δήμῳ γνώμας οὐδεὶς νικήσει πλείονας ἢ σύ.	0.2675
	μὴ ʼμοί γε λέγειν γνώμας μεγάλας·	-0.3
Grant me not to deliver important opinions; for I do not desire these, but only to pervert the right for my own advantage, and to evade my creditors.	οὐ γὰρ τούτων ἐπιθυμῶ, ἀλλʼ ὅσʼ ἐμαυτῷ στρεψοδικῆσαι καὶ τοὺς χρήστας διολισθεῖν.	0.231707
Then you shall obtain what you desire; for you do not covet great things.	τεύξει τοίνυν ὧν ἱμείρεις·	0.226531
But commit yourself without fear to our ministers.	οὐ γὰρ μεγάλων ἐπιθυμεῖς.	0.272727
	ἀλλὰ σεαυτὸν θαρρῶν παράδος τοῖς ἡμετέροις προπόλοισιν.	-0.3
