Spectators, I will freely declare to you the truth, by Bacchus, who nurtured me!	ὦ θεώμενοι κατερῶ πρὸς ὑμᾶς ἐλευθέρως τἀληθῆ νὴ τὸν Διόνυσον τὸν ἐκθρέψαντά με.	-0.0441176
So may I conquer, and be accounted skillful, as that, deeming you to be clever spectators, and this to be the cleverest of my comedies, I thought proper to let you first taste that comedy, which gave me the greatest labour.	οὕτω νικήσαιμί τʼ ἐγὼ καὶ νομιζοίμην σοφός, ὡς ὑμᾶς ἡγούμενος εἶναι θεατὰς δεξιοὺς καὶ ταύτην σοφώτατʼ ἔχειν τῶν ἐμῶν κωμῳδιῶν, πρώτους ἠξίωσʼ ἀναγεῦσʼ ὑμᾶς, ἣ παρέσχε μοι ἔργον πλεῖστον·	0.0423913
And then I retired from the contest defeated by vulgar fellows, though I did not deserve it.	εἶτʼ ἀνεχώρουν ὑπʼ ἀνδρῶν φορτικῶν ἡττηθεὶς οὐκ ἄξιος ὤν·	0.171429
	ταῦτʼ οὖν ὑμῖν μέμφομαι τοῖς σοφοῖς, ὧν οὕνεκʼ ἐγὼ ταῦτʼ ἐπραγματευόμην.	-0.3
These things, therefore, I object to you, a learned audience, for whose sake I was expending this labour.	ἀλλʼ οὐδʼ ὣς ὑμῶν ποθʼ ἑκὼν προδώσω τοὺς δεξιούς.	0.296629
	ἐξ ὅτου γὰρ ἐνθάδʼ ὑπʼ ἀνδρῶν, οἷς ἡδὺ καὶ λέγειν, ὁ σώφρων τε χὠ καταπύγων ἄριστʼ ἠκουσάτην, κἀγώ, παρθένος γὰρ ἔτʼ ἦν, κοὐκ ἐξῆν πώ μοι τεκεῖν, ἐξέθηκα, παῖς δʼ ἑτέρα τις λαβοῦσʼ ἀνείλετο, ὑμεῖς δʼ ἐξεθρέψατε γενναίως κἀπαιδεύσατε·	-0.3
But not even thus will I ever willingly desert the discerning portion of you.	ἐκ τούτου μοι πιστὰ παρʼ ὑμῖν γνώμης ἔσθʼ ὅρκια.	0.203077
For since what time my Modest Man and my Rake were very highly praised here by an audience, with whom it is a pleasure even to hold converse, and I (for I was still a virgin, and it was not lawful for me as yet to have children) exposed my offspring, and another girl took it up, and owned it, and you generously reared and educated it, from this time I have had sure pledges of your good will toward me.	νῦν οὖν Ἠλέκτραν κατʼ ἐκείνην ἥδʼ ἡ κωμῳδία ζητοῦσʼ ἦλθʼ, ἤν που ʼπιτύχῃ θεαταῖς οὕτω σοφοῖς· ~~~ γνώσεται γάρ, ἤνπερ ἴδῃ, τἀδελφοῦ τὸν βόστρυχον. ~~~ ὡς δὲ σώφρων ἐστὶ φύσει σκέψασθʼ·	-0.125483
Now, therefore, like that well-known Electra, has this comedy come seeking, if haply it meet with an audience so clever, for it will recognize, if it should see, the lock of its brother.	ἥτις πρῶτα μὲν οὐδὲν ἦλθε ῥαψαμένη σκυτίον καθειμένον ἐρυθρὸν ἐξ ἄκρου παχύ, τοῖς παιδίοις ἵνʼ ᾖ γέλως·	0.236129
But see how modest she is by nature, who, in the first place, has come, having stitched to her no leathern phallus hanging down, red at the top, and thick, to set the boys a laughing; nor yet jeered the bald-headed, nor danced the cordax; nor does the old man who speaks the verses beat the person near him with his staff, keeping out of sight wretched ribaldry; nor has she rushed in with torches, nor does she shout iou, iou; but has come relying on herself and her verses.	οὐδʼ ἔσκωψε τοὺς φαλακρούς, οὐδὲ κόρδαχʼ εἵλκυσεν, οὐδὲ πρεσβύτης ὁ λέγων τἄπη τῇ βακτηρίᾳ τύπτει τὸν παρόντʼ ἀφανίζων πονηρὰ σκώμματα, οὐδʼ εἰσῇξε δᾷδας ἔχουσʼ, οὐδʼ ἰοὺ ἰοὺ βοᾷ, ἀλλʼ αὑτῇ καὶ τοῖς ἔπεσιν πιστεύουσʼ ἐλήλυθεν.	0.28062
And I, although so excellent a poet, do not give myself airs, nor do I seek to deceive you by twice and thrice bringing forward the same pieces; but I am always clever at introducing new fashions, not at all resembling each other, and all of them clever; who struck Cleon in the belly when at the height of his power, and could not bear to attack him afterward when he was down.	κἀγὼ μὲν τοιοῦτος ἀνὴρ ὢν ποιητὴς οὐ κομῶ, οὐδʼ ὑμᾶς ζητῶ ʼξαπατᾶν δὶς καὶ τρὶς ταὔτʼ εἰσάγων, ἀλλʼ ἀεὶ καινὰς ἰδέας ἐσφέρων σοφίζομαι, οὐδὲν ἀλλήλαισιν ὁμοίας καὶ πάσας δεξιάς·	0.280456
	ὃς μέγιστον ὄντα Κλέωνʼ ἔπαισʼ ἐς τὴν γαστέρα, κοὐκ ἐτόλμησʼ αὖθις ἐπεμπηδῆσʼ αὐτῷ κειμένῳ.	-0.3
But these scribblers, when once Hyperbolus has given them a handle, keep ever trampling on this wretched man and his mother.	οὗτοι δʼ, ὡς ἅπαξ παρέδωκεν λαβὴν Ὑπέρβολος, τοῦτον δείλαιον κολετρῶσʼ ἀεὶ καὶ τὴν μητέρα.	0.134286
	Εὔπολις μὲν τὸν Μαρικᾶν πρώτιστον παρείλκυσεν ἐκστρέψας τοὺς ἡμετέρους Ἱππέας κακὸς κακῶς, προσθεὶς αὐτῷ γραῦν μεθύσην τοῦ κόρδακος οὕνεχʼ, ἣν Φρύνιχος πάλαι πεποίηχʼ, ἣν τὸ κῆτος ἤσθιεν.	-0.3
Eupolis, indeed, first of all craftily introduced his Maricas, having basely, base fellow, spoiled by altering my play of the Knights, having added to it, for the sake of the cordax, a drunken old woman, whom Phrynichus long ago poetized, whom the whale was for devouring.	εἶθʼ Ἕρμιππος αὖθις ἐποίησεν εἰς Ὑπέρβολον, ἄλλοι τʼ ἤδη πάντες ἐρείδουσιν εἰς Ὑπέρβολον, τὰς εἰκοὺς τῶν ἐγχέλεων τὰς ἐμὰς μιμούμενοι.	0.275
Then again Hermippus made verses on Hyperbolus; and now all others press hard upon Hyperbolus, imitating my simile of the eels.	ὅστις οὖν τούτοισι γελᾷ, τοῖς ἐμοῖς μὴ χαιρέτω·	0.227586
Whoever, therefore, laughs at these, let him not take pleasure in my attempts; but if you are delighted with me and my inventions, in times to come you will seem to be wise.	ἢν δʼ ἐμοὶ καὶ τοῖσιν ἐμοῖς εὐφραίνησθʼ εὑρήμασιν, ἐς τὰς ὥρας τὰς ἑτέρας εὖ φρονεῖν δοκήσετε.	0.234507
