When we had got ready to set out hither, the Moon met us, and commanded us first to greet the Athenians and their allies; and then declared that she was angry, for that she had suffered dreadful things, though she benefits you all, not in words, but openly.	ἡνίχʼ ἡμεῖς δεῦρʼ ἀφορμᾶσθαι παρεσκευάσμεθα, ἡ σελήνη συντυχοῦσʼ ἡμῖν ἐπέστειλεν φράσαι, πρῶτα μὲν χαίρειν Ἀθηναίοισι καὶ τοῖς ξυμμάχοις·	0.237441
In the first place, not less than a drachma every month for torches; so that also all, when they went out of an evening, were wont to say, Boy, don't buy a torch, for the moonlight is beautiful.	εἶτα θυμαίνειν ἔφασκε· ~~~ δεινὰ γὰρ πεπονθέναι ὠφελοῦσʼ ὑμᾶς ἅπαντας οὐ λόγοις ἀλλʼ ἐμφανῶς.	-0.010443
And she says she confers other benefits on you, but that you do not observe the days at all correctly, but confuse them up and down; so that she says the gods are constantly threatening her, when they are defrauded of their dinner, and depart home, not having met with the regular feast according to the number of the days.	πρῶτα μὲν τοῦ μηνὸς ἐς δᾷδʼ οὐκ ἔλαττον ἢ δραχμήν, ὥστε καὶ λέγειν ἅπαντας ἐξιόντας ἑσπέρας, μὴ πρίῃ παῖ δᾷδʼ, ἐπειδὴ φῶς σεληναίας καλόν.	0.279435
	ἄλλα τʼ εὖ δρᾶν φησιν, ὑμᾶς δʼ οὐκ ἄγειν τὰς ἡμέρας οὐδὲν ὀρθῶς, ἀλλʼ ἄνω τε καὶ κάτω κυδοιδοπᾶν·	-0.3
	ὥστʼ ἀπειλεῖν φησιν αὐτῇ τοὺς θεοὺς ἑκάστοτε ἡνίκʼ ἂν ψευσθῶσι δείπνου κἀπίωσιν οἴκαδε, τῆς ἑορτῆς μὴ τυχόντες κατὰ λόγον τῶν ἡμερῶν.	-0.3
And then, when you ought to be sacrificing, you are inflicting tortures and litigating.	κᾆθʼ ὅταν θύειν δέῃ, στρεβλοῦτε καὶ δικάζετε·	0.268
And often, while we gods are observing a fast, when we mourn for Memnon or Sarpedon, you are pouring libations and laughing.	πολλάκις δʼ ἡμῶν ἀγόντων τῶν θεῶν ἀπαστίαν, ἡνίκʼ ἂν πενθῶμεν ἢ τὸν Μέμνονʼ ἢ Σαρπηδόνα, σπένδεθʼ ὑμεῖς καὶ γελᾶτʼ·	-0.00288462
For which reason Hyperbolus, having obtained the lot this year to be Hieromnemon, was afterward deprived by us gods of his crown; for thus he will know better that he ought to spend the days of his life according to the Moon.	ἀνθʼ ὧν λαχὼν Ὑπέρβολος τῆτες ἱερομνημονεῖν, κἄπειθʼ ὑφʼ ἡμῶν τῶν θεῶν τὸν στέφανον ἀφῃρέθη·	0.281034
	μᾶλλον γὰρ οὕτως εἴσεται κατὰ σελήνην ὡς ἄγειν χρὴ τοῦ βίου τὰς ἡμέρας.	-0.3
