Most clever spectators, come, give us your attention; for having been injured, we blame you to your faces.	ὦ σοφώτατοι θεαταὶ δεῦρο τὸν νοῦν προσέχετε.	0.266667
For though we benefit the state most of all the gods, to us alone of the deities you do not offer sacrifice nor yet pour libations, who watch over you.	ἠδικημέναι γὰρ ὑμῖν μεμφόμεσθʼ ἐναντίον·	0.126923
	πλεῖστα γὰρ θεῶν ἁπάντων ὠφελούσαις τὴν πόλιν, δαιμόνων ἡμῖν μόναις οὐ θύετʼ οὐδὲ σπένδετε, αἵτινες τηροῦμεν ὑμᾶς.	-0.3
For if there should be any expedition without prudence, then we either thunder or drizzle small rain.	ἢν γὰρ ᾖ τις ἔξοδος μηδενὶ ξὺν νῷ, τότʼ ἢ βροντῶμεν ἢ ψακάζομεν.	0.205814
And then, when you were for choosing as your general the Paphlagonian tanner, hateful to the gods, we contracted our brows and were enraged; and thunder burst through the lightning; and the Moon forsook her usual paths; and the Sun immediately drew in his wick to himself, and declared he would not give you light, if Cleon should be your general.	εἶτα τὸν θεοῖσιν ἐχθρὸν βυρσοδέψην Παφλαγόνα ἡνίχʼ ᾑρεῖσθε στρατηγόν, τὰς ὀφρῦς συνήγομεν κἀποιοῦμεν δεινά, βροντὴ δʼ ἐρράγη διʼ ἀστραπῆς·	0.2625
	ἡ σελήνη δʼ ἐξέλειπε τὰς ὁδούς, ὁ δʼ ἥλιος τὴν θρυαλλίδʼ εἰς ἑαυτὸν εὐθέως ξυνελκύσας οὐ φανεῖν ἔφασκεν ὑμῖν, εἰ στρατηγήσει Κλέων.	-0.3
Nevertheless you chose him.	ἀλλʼ ὅμως εἵλεσθε τοῦτον.	0.024
For they say that ill counsel is in this city; that the gods, however, turn all these your mismanagements to a prosperous issue.	φασὶ γὰρ δυσβουλίαν τῇδε τῇ πόλει προσεῖναι, ταῦτα μέντοι τοὺς θεοὺς ἅττʼ ἂν ὑμεῖς ἐξαμάρτητʼ ἐπὶ τὸ βέλτιον τρέπειν.	0.00280374
And how this also shall be advantageous, we will easily teach you.	ὡς δὲ καὶ τοῦτο ξυνοίσει ῥᾳδίως διδάξομεν·	0.176786
If you should convict the cormorant Cleon of bribery and embezzlement, and then make fast his neck in the stocks, the affair will turn out for the state to the ancient form again, if you have mismanaged in any way, and to a prosperous issue.	ἢν Κλέωνα τὸν λάρον δώρων ἑλόντες καὶ κλοπῆς εἶτα φιμώσητε τούτου τῷ ξύλῳ τὸν αὐχένα, αὖθις ἐς τἀρχαῖον ὑμῖν, εἴ τι κἀξημάρτετε, ἐπὶ τὸ βέλτιον τὸ πρᾶγμα τῇ πόλει συνοίσεται.	0.128788
